[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: So usually, we
work in intervals of years.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: And our current
interval is about to end.
And we called it 2017.
And so I was thinking,
my next until interval,
what is it going to be about?
SPEAKER 2: It's
going to be 2018.
SPEAKER 1: It is going to
be 20-- yes, like a plus 1.
And so I thought I
would tell you my topic.
And you can ask me questions.
I will have to make, explain
it to you within two minutes.
SPEAKER 2: Within
two minutes, OK, go.
SPEAKER 1: Workers.
SPEAKER 2: I'm aware of them.
SPEAKER 1: They're existing.
They have been existing
for a long time.
But I think we need
to start using them.
SPEAKER 2: Service workers,
I've been using them.
SPEAKER 1: Service
worker is not-- oh,
so there's workers
as a group, I guess.
But I was talking
about the web workers,
the way of the web to giving
you actual parallelism,
to multi-threading.
SPEAKER 2: A dedicated worker.
SPEAKER 1: A dedicated
worker for your site.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: And I
think we should be
looking at the native
platforms like iOS and Android.
And what they've been
doing for quite a long time
is doing only UI work
on the main thread
and putting everything
else in a different thread.
SPEAKER 2: OK, right.
I mean, are we not
doing that already?
Some people are
doing that already.
I've done that, what I'm saying
is, I've done that already.
I have done that already.
SPEAKER 1: There have
been experiments.
But I think it's
everything but mainstream.
And I think it needs
to become mainstream.
Because for the
past couple years,
the problem has
always been jank,
people doing too much JavaScript
on the main thread and doing
animations wrong and whatnot.
And if we could just move the
expense of JavaScript code
to a different thread and have
some really good parents on how
to still interact with
the UI part of your app,
you would be free to just
write some blocking code,
just do some expensive
JSON object serialization.
And it wouldn't really affect
the performance of your app.
SPEAKER 2: So a big
part of the problem
is that communication between
the main page and the worker.
Because that's so
clumsy right now.
SPEAKER 1: It's post message.
If you spend it with worker,
you get post message, which you
can send JSON objects at best.
SPEAKER 2: We have shared
array buffer as well,
which is a way you can
re-invent all of the buffer
over on problems,
but on the web.
SPEAKER 1: Which is great.
I've been working on
things to make it easier,
which, one of the
things is Comlink.
But I think there's lots
of explorations to do.
And it's definitely worth
doing because it would just
make the web feel
good by default.
And I think that
would be really nice.
SPEAKER 2: Less jank
is a good thing.
SPEAKER 1: That is a good thing.
[MUSIC - THEME, "12
DAYS OF CHRISTMAS"]
[CHUCKLING]
SPEAKER 2: And we're done.
[MUSIC PLAYING]